DOCKET will accelerate the work of researchers who
develop Knowledge Providers by providing a domain-agnostic
and researcher-driven solution to analyze
data to extract knowledge for the Translator
Knowledge Graph (TKG). DOCKET has three main
functions: Overview, Compare and Integrate.

DOCKET Overview will embody a completely
automated workflow going from raw input data to mini knowledge
graphs. The automated analysis will
include domain-agnostic modules for computing
statistics on the objects and attributes in the data,
schema detection, indexing and clustering, Pareto
Task Inference to identify ‘archetypes’, biclustering, enrichment
analysis, and more. These analyses will be complemented with
domain-specific analytic modules, an architecture we
developed for Big Data Quality Control.

DOCKET Compare will enable comparing two or more versions of
the same data set. Dockets of two or more
distinct data sets can be compared to
discover whether they share some (or all) entities,
whether they share attributes, whether attributes have
similar distributions, etc. Such entity or attribute overlaps
would suggest the data sets could be joined.

DOCKET Integrate will perform three types of computations.
The first computation is data matching, merging and selecting.
DOCKET Integrate will facilitate the effective selection of
multiple omics data from different datasets in the same
contexts (disease, gene, mutation, etc.) to increase the
understanding of gene regulation flows as well provide multiple
levels of features to predict consequences.
The second computation is sequential integration for different
levels of data. DOCKET Integrate will implement statistical
models to extract the underlying association or knowledge by
integration of two different levels of data. For example, when
considering which gene mutations are associated with differential
knockdown efficacy of RAS in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), DOCKET
Integrate will select gene knockdown data of LUAD cell
lines from DepMap, merge the gene mutation data of the same cell
lines from CCLE, build regression models and perform hypothesis testing
to generate gene pairs and p-values to add to the TKG. The third
computation is to integrate different datasets from different levels
simultaneously. For example, in response to an ARA query on drug
responses for a specific drug in breast cancer (BRCA), DOCKET will
select drug response data from BRCA cell lines from GDSC and CTRP as
dependent variables, merge molecular features at multiple levels
from the same cell lines from GDSC and CCLE as independent variables,
and produce AI-readydata (observations and feature matrix) as outcome.
